yo guys what's up there are exactly two
things in this room that prove that I'm
in China that I'm not recording this
video in Ireland there's something one
is that I got the dojang this is
powdered soy milk and I had to ask them
at the shop does it contain milk powder
and does it contain powdered eggs try to
make sure your goddamn even soy milk can
be non-vegan around here when I was in
Thailand they had soy milk no kidding
that contained fish meat fish in the
song walk I'm not joking it's a whole
other story and the other piece of
evidence that i'm currently in china and
nowhere else the worlds that i bought
this t-shirt today and this is size
extra large stick tight on me extra
large anyway sorry I'm coughing guys the
reason why i have not had a contribution
to the Q&A earlier is that i have been
really sick and you can still see it in
my face i still look a bit puffy and out
of it I've been falling asleep at
strange times the day just like two
o'clock in the afternoon I just pass out
fever illness coughing its it I thought
this would be a trivial illness but it
has not been up and really really sick
but still I've been trying to bring some
quality content for you guys well I've
been over here in china keeping my head
above water so look this is the start of
what's going to be many many parts
answering your questions I do take all
the questions and into the QA seriously
I will not answer each and every one
because that's humanly impossible but i
will read each and every one and wheres
one person has asked for questions i'm
definitely going to answer one another
for line jumping your line jumpers come
on it's a Q&A you're asking me four and
six question but what do you what do you
think come on all right first question
this feeding in answer to just try to
keep your sunday a bit Lively if it is
sunday in your time zone when you happen
to see this here this first question
answer is from atlas d i'm treating
people just slightly announcement just
saying Alice T she actually does give
her full last name she is asking what
led to your desire to help people and
make the world a better place based on
the way you come across in your videos
it seems like a wearying pursuit etc etc
ok look so this relates to several
different themes in my life in
whatever in all the stuff I talked about
on YouTube veganism politics midterm
work why do I say so often that I'm not
a nice guy you know it's so easy to tell
a story it's so easy to make yourself
out to be a saint or a murderer it's so
easy to glorify misrepresent the
motivations that really drive you into
humanitarian work and the humanitarian
side of politics of being involved in
politics and trying to make the world a
better place which you know I have been
it's been a part of my life something
I've always really tried to be honest
with myself about and honest with others
about was precisely the extent to which
those things involve some quite negative
motivations so yes you know humanitarian
work it is about saving the world it's
about helping human beings by making the
world a better place whether it's
feeding starving people in famine
afflicted areas of Laos or dealing with
the consequences of Cambodian civil war
or first nations within Canada or any of
the other things have cared about I mean
I cared about first nation especially
since I was a kid really since I was a
child that bothered me it's been a it's
been a fissure in the illusion that
Canadian civilization is something
morally positive and good that we should
all be a part of and we should all be
applauding but are those motivations
entirely positive no they're not so to
give an example again from childhood
forward from early childhood part of
what made me want to be involved with
humanitarian work was a sense of
contempt for the civilization I was born
into a sense of contempt for the culture
I was raised in now I was born and
raised in Canada as you may have heard
my culture my civilization didn't build
the pyramids you know maybe it would be
different if I was born and raised in
Egypt and I really felt a profound sense
of belonging and of indebtedness to the
grandeur the greatness the
accomplishments of my ancestors who
built the pyramids I can imagine that
being very different for some people
maybe it would even be different if I'd
been born and raised in a Buddhist
culture where there were other virtues
in the civilization but i was born in a
civilization in a culture and a time
that rangs so hollow to me were all the
justifications for
what the government was doing what it
was for why why my country even existed
were incredibly hollow and you know
morally repugnant to me and again the
history of colonization the history of
the British Empire the history of
genocide against the indigenous peoples
and where that was says that's was a
huge component of that that vitiate 'add
the myth of canada for me growing up
those were not the only factors I could
list a whole bunch of things about
Canada that I really disliked as a child
and then things that I disliked as a
teenager and things that dislike as an
adult but it was fundamentally very hard
for me to accept the culture that I was
born into now you could respond to that
in a bunch of different ways you know
you could respond to that by getting
involved in organized crime or becoming
antisocial in a number of different ways
and it is it is strange not strange in
my case I respond to that by really
developing my kind of humanitarian
instincts now another route I could have
taken I think would have been to become
an artist to see myself as being in a
state of rebellion and trying to make
the world a better place through art but
you guys already know for my character
that never could have worked for me you
know and I was involved in the arts and
certainly that's only my parents would
have encouraged much more than any of
the things that I did end up being
passionate about and I again I mean it's
this thing you hear me say all the time
keeping it real to me the idea that you
you actually literally paint a painting
you create a painting and think you're
making the world a better place to me
that is never going to be as real as
going to a farm and talking to the
farmers and doing research on
agriculture and actually handing out
sacks of rice to people who otherwise
would starve or be lacking you know add
to me there's no comparison you know
making a painting or a play of work of
performance art or writing a piece of
music about a war like the current war
in Afghanistan or the civil war in
Cambodia the civil war in sri lanka to
me that can never be as real as actually
doing the research and I've actually
trying to get involved to make a
positive difference even if that
difference you make is tiny because it's
direct and it's real so
for me going and trying the volunteer
for example at refugee camps on the
border between Thailand and Myanmar this
is years ago when those refugee camps
really booming that's that so this
reflects my sense of what's real and
what have you but as they say you know
I've always tried to be honest myself
notes but that's something I've talked
about in contrasting myself to Christian
missionaries you know Christian
missionaries tend to really need to have
the the delusion that the people they're
helping our angels they're helping
people who are morally good and I always
said no that's not the point you help
people because they need help and
because helping them is the right thing
to do you can go to Cambodia and have a
charity that helps people and the people
you're helping maybe scumbags you like
they're starving their poor and their
war criminals you know the war just
ended they just finished massacring
people but they need help now you have
to think about seriously is this the
right thing to do but you can't go in
there I mean even whatever northern Laos
the farmers the typical guy who runs a
farm is he a nice guy is he an angel as
he morally good as he pure of heart
because he needs your help no so again
my my mix of instincts and motivations
and where that came from as a child it's
not entirely positive and it's
definitely not the kind of stereotype we
have coming out of Western Christian
culture so that's what I'm always saying
that I'm not a nice guy I'm always
saying that there's kind of more to it
and it probably is for most people if
you can riff Emil when I was in a place
like Laos and Thailand you know a lot of
the guys doing humanitarian work were
homosexuals and one of the reasons for
doing humanitarian work in that part of
the world was that they didn't want to
be in a homophobic culture anymore you
know they grew up somewhere in the
Western world and they got sick of it
and they were trying to have a career
that let them live in Thailand or Laos
or what have you to be in a culture that
was not homophobic and where they could
openly be themselves and so on totally
sympathetic totally understandable but
it doesn't really have anything to do
with the humanitarian work has to do
with kind of lifestyle they want to live
so uh I guess I guess that's enough of
an answer this question from Alice
second question I actually do not have
the the name of the person who posed the
question here but someone wrote in an
asked how would I feel if my own
daughter grew up to eat meat if my own
daughter is not vegan and to me this is
an interesting question coming at this
time because you know my thoughts and
feelings about this changed when i was
in chiang mai just in the last couple of
weeks if i had answered this question
before the trip to chiang mai I would
have told you the following narrative so
I'm foreshadowing my thoughts on this
epic I would have told you a story it's
a true story about a Hindu man and I
only found out about him because one of
his daughters became a successful
actress successful TV personality and
this daughter in interviews had revealed
that you know her father was a
traditional Hindu vegetarian and he took
vegetarianism very seriously and the
minute she started eating meat which I
think was when she was in University so
when she had some independence from her
family she started eating meat from the
minute she started eating meat you know
basically didn't talk to her you're very
simple keeping in touch but you know the
personal relationship was over and then
he never supported her career as an
actress or what have you and he was just
very harsh towards her and eventually
you know she would this address she was
successful enough that she did
commercials for restaurants that serve
me for like fast food restaurant but you
know I'm sure only made his his feelings
towards or even harsher and I you know
what complete was that having to read
interview with this actress and she said
that her sister she had a younger sister
by contrast and he had always been so
warm and so loving to this younger
sister and he had supported her in her
career to be she also wanted to be an
actress he had two daughters were both
basically good-looking and wanted to be
hecht races and so she always felt the
burn of this contrast in the way the dot
the the younger daughter was treating
the older daughter was treated reading
this like it's not trivial that you
decided to strategic meet it's like if
you're in a Christian family and you
convert to Satanism Satanism is still
based on the same Bible you're cheering
for the other side but you still
actually believed in the same God and
the same cosmology and the same world
system you know
Amy sound bizarre but actually for a
Christian family to accept a Satanist
kid not that difficult conceptually but
you are literally killing and eating
cows on a daily basis and your father is
a traditional Hindu vegetarian which
doubtless includes some ethical aspects
and some supernatural aspects some
religious aspects and some just
traditionalism but you're betraying and
insulting your family and hurting your
father's feelings in a daily basis in a
way that's really real it doesn't just
have to do with belief or behavior you
know so when i read that obviously the
interview was written entirely from the
actresses perspective but i thought what
are you thinking look there's another
side to this story and not only are the
father's feelings real but you know the
impacts for the cows are real the
impacts for ecology real but you know
this is something that actually does
harm which is again it's very different
I would not be happy if my daughter
started smoking cigarettes but you know
the cigarettes would be harming her you
know on when you're eating meat you're
harming yourself and you're harming the
cows in your harming the world so in the
past I would have related this and I
would have again talked about the fact
that I'm not a nice guy and I would have
had a reflection that I would have said
you know probably even though I'm not
religious probably like that Hindu
parent that Hindu father I would have a
somewhat neg stream you know negative
reaction like that and I probably would
be a jerk about it okay that was before
Chiang Mai in Chiang Mai I got to see
for myself people totally disillusioned
with totally emotionally devastated by
the conduct of their fellow vegans and
at that time before reading this
question I reflected just independently
I thought you know what this change is
the way I feel about that scenario like
you know what if my daughter starts
eating me and it changes it because I
can now imagine completely that just
being a disillusioned with the people
who are vegans not being disillusioned
with veganism but being a disillusioned
with the reality of vegans themselves
really could be enough for my daughter
to quit being vegan i was seeing that I
was seeing that in Chiang Mai was seeing
the impact of that and I have to confess
that that's of course quite quite
closely parallel to my experience with
Buddhism it who Buddhists are in the
21st century I had to look at who
people were and realize I can't work
with these people and this is not the
religion for me not because of the
details of the philosophy not because of
the type of textual study that I engaged
in not like one day you know I was
reading a pally manuscript that I
discovered a different aspect of the
Buddhist philosophy that I didn't know
before I thought is it no no not for the
textual aspect not for the historical
aspect not for the political aspect it's
for the human reality of who Buddhists
are in the 21st century what the
religion is on the human scale who these
people are what's possible and
impossible because of who they are and
you know this is simplifying I've had
longer videos talking about my strength
but and I had to walk away from Buddhism
but with veganism and it's even more
dynamic than that because you are
limiting your life by being vegan
socially in terms of the people into the
human element you are you can get
yourself about it but you are you know
different people when i was in shame i
joked with me because of the accusations
from during writer giving people joke
with me oh well you know you're gonna
you know you're here to find a vegan
girlfriend or something i remember
saying look if i was trying to find a
girlfriend the number one thing is don't
be vegan you know or don't mention that
you're vegan the number two thing is you
know pretend you drink alcohol so you
guys probably know I both I'm vegan I
also don't I don't drink alcohol I don't
use any other mind altering drugs the
reality is if you just want to meet
people for romance or friendship or
social networking the vast majority of
those people are going to be meat eaters
and the actual social context for
meeting them for making those
connections in 2016 is dominated by meat
and alcohol that's where people meet
that's how they meet alcohol as creating
the whole atmosphere of relaxed social
interaction so on so you know when you
cut yourself off from that is definitely
in Canada definitely in England
definitely in Germany in many many many
cultures but even in Thailand you're
massively reducing the spectrum of
people who can be part of your life and
the type of life you lead we can direct
with so yes d I could actually now
deeply sympathize with the
my daughter might have for either
becoming non-vegan or for you know
pretending to eat meat and you know to
be more of a mainstream member of normal
society that way just so that she
doesn't have to live in an intellectual
ghetto so she doesn't have to live in
this with this narrow spectrum of her
fellow human beings and I mean like I
say in Chiang Mai I was created by
people who just had their minds blown
who were so disappointed in this
consulate because they were having to
see the ugly reality of who their fellow
vegans were and look guys now that I
have the comments section open in
YouTube you can have their faces you
look in the YouTube comments section and
you have all these people who are
avowedly ethical vegans and there is
apparently absolutely nothing else in
their lives that's ethical and we got to
take that seriously so yeah um you know
my thoughts and my feelings on that have
changed uh but for me personally I'm you
know I'm not tempted to stop being vegan
I do not mind living a life where I have
narrow a narrow but deep section of the
population I interact with of course I'm
a fully grown adult I'm not a teenager
i'm not a child so it's very different
for me than it would be for my daughter
growing up for me there's no temptation
to get involved with meat or alcohol or
even the broader constituency the
broader part of the world's population i
can drag that but that's me and as I've
said so many times even in this first
set of answers to the Q&A I'm not a nice
guy in a lot of ways the type of
lifestyle have been yearning for since
my teens since my early teenage years
are late shelters has been a pretty
monastic focused disciplined lifestyle
and here at this language school I
really have that it's a strange irony
but my situation this language school
I'm going to try to make some videos to
show you in some ways this is more
monastic than being in a Buddhist
monastery and I have stayed in enough
Buddhist monasteries to know to have an
opinion and it's more monastic than
being in the Canadian military and I did
sign up to join the military so I could
be on a base right now but I'm not um
you know of living a kind of focused
simple life in every way in terms of
food study scholarship self-discipline
so that's that's also been an aspect of
my character and in some ways I was
seeking that out in humanitarian work
and wanting to be in that tent in that
village where people needed sacks of
rice and out of them and in some ways I
was seeking out throughput a scholarship
and in some ways I've been seeking it
out you know in all and all the
different things that are part of my
life so that was just two questions
barely under twenty fifth long